# PyRad
This script package was developed for the creation and analysis of the radiolysis systems.

The main software to perform all TDDFT calculations: qb@ll (https://github.com/LLNL/qball)
You will also need the packmol software to create systems (http://m3g.iqm.unicamp.br/packmol/home.shtml)

This repo includes:

1) PyRadCreator - creates an enviroment for radyolysis calculation in qb@ll software.

        Usage: PyRadCreator.py input1.ini input2.ini
        .ini files, and the host .xyz files should be placed in the same directory as this script.
        all pseudopotentials should be placed in pseudos directory
        WARNING! qb@ll doesn't respond to windows EOL symbol on unix-based systems!


2) PyRadTester - H2O radicals searcher with simple gui. Auto output of econst .csv file. 

        Usage: PyRadTester.py qball_out.o
        For additional info about econst parameter see the url: 
        https://github.com/LLNL/qball/wiki/Tutorial-TDDFT#finding-the-optimal-time-step

3) PyRadEDensity - analyses the electron density .cube file and findes all anomalies in it.

        Usage: PyRadTester.py cube_file.o

        on GUI: symbols - atoms
                colored dots - electron density maxima
                sample size and threshold - sliders for maxima searcher
                correlation - slider to filter out electron density maxima that appear near atoms


4) Utils/PyRadDatAvrg.py is an additional utility for averaging several simulations. 

        Usage: PyRadDatAvrg.py 1.sys 2.sys
        .sys-files can be generated by PyRadTester.
        
5) Utils/PyRadDatDraw.py is an utility to draw .sys file. It can be generated with PyRadTester

        Usage: PyRadDatDraw.py 1.sys
        
Please cite, if using:

Andreadi, N, Mitrofanov, A, Eliseev, A, Matveev, P, Kalmykov, S, Petrov, V. PyRad: A software shell for simulating radiolysis with Qball package. J Comput Chem. 2021; 42: 944– 950. https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.26509
